```
ACP: 3
Title: Finite Water
Author: Alex XZ Cypher Zero <me@alex0.net>
Status: Draft
Created: 2023-06-25
```

## Abstract

This ACP proposes a policy for the disablement of infinite water sources.

## Motivation

As it stands, obtaining infinite water is easy and commonplace. This goes against the realism ideals of the server by making something that should be a limited resource accessible.

Making water finite would encourage making use of water recycling functionality from various machines, instead of just i.e. dumping excess steam condensing it back into water for efficiency would be required. This would make industrial processes on the server more interesting and detailed.

## Specification

The following main items have been identified as what should be required to build a consistent water supply infrastructure:
- A location investment (building a pump next to a physical river; a large-enough area of static water sources)
- A resource investment (building pumps, machines for purification of the water, and water transport to and from pumping stations, purification stations and factories)
- An energy investment (supplying the pumps and water purifiers with electricity)

This ACP would be implemented through the disablement of machines used to generate infinite water - for example, the infinite source blocks in NuclearCraft and in Thermal Expansion.

### Implementation period

A period would be defined where building water supply infrastructure is acceptable, but infinite sources are not yet disabled. This would allow players the time to make the changes necessary to build infrastructure to switch over to, without their factories breaking suddenly.
